Commissions & Claim Permissions for Pools (#4996)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/learn/learn-nomination-pools.md

[this support article](https://support.polkadot.network/support/solutions/articles/65000181401-how-to-join-nomination-pools)
for guidelines.

### Claim Permissions

> As a pool member, you can grant permission to any other pool member to claim and compound rewards on

Reviewer: Any account, regardless of in a pool, can claim on behalf of the member.

```suggestion
As a pool member, you can grant permission to any other account to claim and compound rewards on
```

your behalf. There are four permission options:

- `Permissioned` (default): you need to claim and compound your rewards.

> - `PermissionlessCompound`: you grant permission to any other pool member to compound (claim and
>   bond) your rewards on your behalf.
> - `PermissionlessWithdraw`: you grant permission to any other pool member to withdraw (claim and
>   keep as a free balance) your rewards on your behalf.
> - `PermissionlessAll`: you grant permission to any other pool member to compound or withdraw your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `PermissionlessCompound`: you grant permission to any other account to compound (claim and
  bond) your rewards on your behalf.
- `PermissionlessWithdraw`: you grant permission to any other account to withdraw (claim and
  keep as a free balance) your rewards on your behalf.
- `PermissionlessAll`: you grant permission to any other account to compound or withdraw your
```

  rewards on your behalf.

> Accounts not members of your pool will not be able to claim rewards on your behalf.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  all other members have left. Once they leave by withdrawing, the pool is fully removed from the
  system.
- Nominator: Can select the validators the pool nominates.
- Bouncer: Can change the pool’s state and kick (permissionlessly unbond/withdraw) members if the
  pool is blocked.
- Root: Can change the nominator, bouncer, or itself. Further, it can perform any of the actions the
  nominator or bouncer can.

### Pool Commissions

:::info Live on Kusama

Pool commissions are currently live on Kusama. On Polkadot will be live once the Max Commission will
be decided through governance referendum.

:::

> As a pool admin, you can set pool commissions that will be applied to the staking rewards paid out

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the pool root role, you can set pool commissions that will be applied to the staking rewards paid out
```

Reviewer: The root also sets a `payee` account that commission payouts go to.

  Note that once set, **the pool admin can only lower it**.
- **Change Rate** (`nominationPools.setCommissionChangeRate` extrinsic): the maximum rate increase
  (`maxIncrease` parameter) allowed for a single commission update. Note that once set, **the pool
  admin can only lower it**. When setting the Change Rate, it will also be possible to set a
  `minDelay` quantified as the number of blocks (since last commission update) after which it is
  possible to change the commission (i.e. the minimum delay between commission updates). Note that
  once set, **the pool admin can only increase it**.

Max Commission and Change Rate must not be necessarily set. It is the choice of the pool admin to
set those parameters and provide transparency to the pool members about the pool's commission
policy.

:::warning Max Commission and Change Rate are permanent

Once the Max Commission and the Change Rate are set, the pool admin can only decrease those values.
The minimum delay between commission updates can only be increased.

:::

Let's take, for example, Pool A, which sets the Commission Rate to 10%, the Max Commission to 100%,

> and the Change Rate to 1% every 30 minutes. The following statements are true:

Reviewer: Excellent explanation 👍

One nit, perhaps say the number of blocks here (as this is what is stored on chain), and then "which equates to approximately 30 minutes".

- The pool commission can be increased by 1% every 30 minutes. Bigger increases are not allowed.
  Increases of less than or equal to 1% are not allowed sooner than 30 minutes since the last
  commission update.
- The Max Commission can only be decreased from 100%. Once decreased, it can be decreased again but
  it cannot be increased.

> - The Change Rate can only be decreased from 1%. Once decreased, it can be decreased again but it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Change Rate's maximum increase can only be decreased from 1%. Once decreased, it can be decreased again but it
```

  cannot be increased.

> - The minimum delay between updates of 30 min can only be increased. Once increased, it can be

Reviewer: nit
```suggestion
- The Change Rate's minimum delay between updates of 30 min can only be increased. Once increased, it can be
```

  all other members have left. Once they leave by withdrawing, the pool is fully removed from the
  system.
- Nominator: Can select the validators the pool nominates.
- Bouncer: Can change the pool’s state and kick (permissionlessly unbond/withdraw) members if the
  pool is blocked.
- Root: Can change the nominator, bouncer, or itself. Further, it can perform any of the actions the
  nominator or bouncer can.

### Pool Commissions

> :::info Live on Kusama

Reviewer: FYI, this referendum will enable a `globalMaxCommission` of 10% on Polkadot and enable commission: https://polkadot.polkassembly.io/referenda/55
